Welcome back.
Let's start writing some tests that are for asynchronous code.
If we go back to our script to test our Yes we can start off our first test by saying it calls Swaby
starwars API to get people.
And again same syntax as we've seen before in our first test.
What can we do well we can't say swapping Daut get people will give it the fetch API or the fetch function.
And then do DOD then and like I said you could pass down you or else here and we could do something
called mocking which we'll talk about later.
For now we're just sticking with this method.
But let's see what we can test.
We have the API that we're calling again.
It's going to return us a ton of data.
So again we do the DOT than just simple javascript and this then is going to return us some data.
Remember it's going to return our data out or it's going to return our count and results.
So in here inside of the DOD then block we can do our assertions expect data does count
to equal
a 7 because remember if we go back to the Web site the count is 87.
So hopefully data count matches 87.
Let's see if that's the case I'm going to save and go back to running our tests.
Let me clear this and run NPM test
and we all need to press a to run all tests for it.
So that works but isn't too hard we don't do anything too too crazy.
What if we add a nother test.
We're going to add another test here and it's going to say it's cold calls Swaby to get people with
the promise.
Now this time around we'll use get people promise let's save.
Right.
Is that actually working.
It looks to be working.
I mean we get the tests six of them that have passed.
But remember what I said we always want to make sure that we fail our tests and check that the tests
actually are checking while we're what we want to check.
One tool that we can use with geste is something called xpect dot assertions and assertions are Remember
assertion library.
Are these things these are assertions.
So using the expect assertions we can't say within this block we expect one or assertion.
If we had to then we should say we expect to and this is a good way to test that these things are actually
running especially with a synchronous code.
Let me do one here.
I'm going to save
whoa what just happened.
Our xpect dot assertions one field.
There were zero assertion calls.
So something's happening here where this test is passing.
But this is never being called and this is a little gotcha with asynchronous tests.
You see when this happens during tests it's really really hard to debug because it's easy to not check
that they work properly.
The problem is that the tests are actually completing as soon as the get people gets called.
And remember a promise returns a pending state.
So this is going to get returned before we actually receive the data.
How do we get around this.
How can we tell the test hey don't just pass this test because nothing happened and we just returned
a promise with a pending state.
Wait until this is actually done and then keep going.
There's a few ways to do this.
The first way to do it is to use a single argument called done so instead of having an empty parameter
here for the function we can have done that that gets automatically passed to a test.
And this says hey just just wait until the done callback is called before you actually say this test
is finished.
And you usually put it right after the call so let's say this is now done.
So let me save that
operate.
It passed.
Now we're saying hey don't pass this test until this is done.
Just to test if I change just as zero This is failing because we have one assertion call awesome.
Now this is one way of doing it.
And the neat thing with this is that if for some reason this thought if this testicle fails let's say
that in the script to J us this is actually an incorrect u r l parameter.
There were any Maybe we misspell people.
If I say this you see that I get an air call saw B to get people and I get an error here so that the
test waits until I'm actually done.
Very nice.
Now let's fix this.
Bring this back to Juan and talk about the other way that you can do this and this is really easy.
If your code uses promises like we have there is a simpler way that's probably less confusing for most
people to handle asynchronous test and this is another thing I really like about just we can simply
instead of doing this just
return the promise and just this smart enough to say oh because we're returning this I'm going to wait
until this promise returns.
And if the promise is rejected the test will automatically fail which is very nice.
Again let's say this everything surpassing if I misspell the API you are again you see that the test
automatically gets fail.
Now this is a little tricky.
You have to always make sure that you return the promise if you admit this returns Simien statement
as you we saw your test will complete before the promise actually gets resolved or rejected.
So here's a tip when running a Synchronoss tests always do this always do the expect assertions.
Always test out that your assertions are being tested.
So let's finish this off.
Let's add a few more lines.
We'll say that in here.
We're going to add two assertions.
And again we want our return here.
And we'll add another assertion that says that we expect data
results to have a lenth
and what can we use here.
We want to check maybe that the results we get a least five people are that the length is greater than
let's say five.
Luckily for us there's a just cheat sheet and this just cheat sheet.
Well try to say that fast five times.
That's pretty hard actually has all these things that you can use for the test right in here.
Super super useful.
These are pretty much all you need to write the perfect tests.
And we see here that we have the to be greater then method.
So let's use that.
I'm going to say to be greater then and again this is why i love justin most assertion libraries.
They just make everything read nicely in English so you understand exactly what's going on.
So I'm going to say to be greater than five.
Let's save.
All right.
We had a few errors so let's fix this test two assertions to be called but we only got one.
Why is that.
And I don't air land of undefined and less log out data to see what we're getting here let's to console
dialog dad dot results
and I'm getting an undefined.
So it looks like over here.
Oh there you'll notice my error.
I misspelled results here.
You're probably laughing at me right now.
But this happens a lot more than you think.
Right.
So let's see that.
All right that's good.
We're getting some response let's remove the console log hit save.
And again this is another good reason to write tests right because I would not have caught that mistake
until I've actually run the app.
So I see here that I just have a simple type error to be greater than again terrible English.
This is th a
her right.
Everything is passing and what you just witnessed is how tests usually work.
They're constantly breaking they constantly breaking and you try to get to this green state.
And when you get to this green state it's like hallelujah this is so nice it feels so good to have everything
green and things are working.
Awesome.
All right.
I think that's good for now in the next video.
I want to talk to you a little bit about mocking.
I'll see you in that one.
Bye bye.